manual/src/docs/asciidoc/chapters/08-selenium.adoc, before:

= Browser Automation with Selenium

The Selenium Module provides the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/BrowseTheWeb.html[BrowseTheWeb Ability], which basically provides a managed https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/webdriver/[Selenium WebDriver].

The Ability not only warps a WebDriver, but also manages it using a link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverSupplier] which comes in different flavors for different scenarios (e.g. local debugging or continuous integration).

== Setup

=== For Local Development

When you write your UI tests locally, it is quite useful (and also satisfying) to be able to watch the automation work in a local browser, checking the browser's developer and logs.
For this Shakespeare comes with the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/LocalWebDriverSupplier.html[LocalWebDriverSupplier], which relies on a local installation of the browser.

It does take care of downloading the required binary, starting the browser as soon as the Actor actually uses it and closing it after the test case.

.Setup for local development
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=local]
----

=== For Continuous Integration with Docker

Continuous integration (CI) environments usually don't have a viewport and sometimes not even any browsers installed.
For such scenarios Shakespeare comes with the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/DockerWebDriverSupplier.html[DockerWebDriverSupplier].

As the name suggests, it requires Docker to be available on the CI system and uses it to provide a container with the desired browser installed.

.Setup for Docker Continuous Integration with Docker
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=docker]
----

=== Using WebDriverManager

Both of the above variants rely on the https://bonigarcia.dev/webdrivermanager/[WebDriverManager] internally.

link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverManagerWebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverManagerWebDriverSupplier] allows to use it directly and thereby use all of its features.

.Setup with WebDriverManager
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=web-driver-manager]
----

== Additional Capabilities

All link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverSuppliers] provide a constructor, which allows configuring additional Capabilities.

.Additional Capabilities in a LocalWebDriverSupplier
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=additional-capabilities]
----

== Selenium Reporting

=== Screenshot Reporting

An actor can be instructed to inform link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/ScreenshotReporter.html[ScreenshotReporter] (see <<Reporting>>).
By default, this will create a screenshot of the current page whenever doing a Task or answering a Question needs to be retried or fails, but it can also be configured to report successes.

The screenshots can then be found at the configured reports path and are named `<counter>-<actor>-<retry|failure|success>-<task|question string>.png`, where the `<task|question string>` is a file system friendly version of the Task's or Question's `toString()`.
E.g. `001-imogen-success-latest_shakespeare_release_version.png`.

.Using a ScreenshotReporter
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=screenshot-reporter]
----

=== HTML Snapshot Reports

Similar to the <<Screenshot Reporting>> there's also a link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/HtmlSnapshotReporter.html[HtmlSnapshotReporter], which captures the current page's HTML snapshot.

.Using a HtmlSnapshotReporter
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=html-snapshot-reporter]
----

Commit message:

Add documentation for base URL
See #131

manual/src/docs/asciidoc/chapters/08-selenium.adoc, after:

= Browser Automation with Selenium

The Selenium Module provides the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/BrowseTheWeb.html[BrowseTheWeb Ability], which basically provides a managed https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/webdriver/[Selenium WebDriver].

The Ability not only warps a WebDriver, but also manages it using a link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverSupplier] which comes in different flavors for different scenarios (e.g. local debugging or continuous integration).

== Setup

=== For Local Development

When you write your UI tests locally, it is quite useful (and also satisfying) to be able to watch the automation work in a local browser, checking the browser's developer and logs.
For this Shakespeare comes with the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/LocalWebDriverSupplier.html[LocalWebDriverSupplier], which relies on a local installation of the browser.

It does take care of downloading the required binary, starting the browser as soon as the Actor actually uses it and closing it after the test case.

.Setup for local development
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=local]
----

=== For Continuous Integration with Docker

Continuous integration (CI) environments usually don't have a viewport and sometimes not even any browsers installed.
For such scenarios Shakespeare comes with the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/DockerWebDriverSupplier.html[DockerWebDriverSupplier].

As the name suggests, it requires Docker to be available on the CI system and uses it to provide a container with the desired browser installed.

.Setup for Docker Continuous Integration with Docker
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=docker]
----

=== Using WebDriverManager

Both of the above variants rely on the https://bonigarcia.dev/webdrivermanager/[WebDriverManager] internally.

link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverManagerWebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverManagerWebDriverSupplier] allows to use it directly and thereby use all of its features.

.Setup with WebDriverManager
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=web-driver-manager]
----

== Base URL

Usually you will be testing one specific web application.
In order to reset the browser to the URL of that application, you can give that base URL as an additional parameter to the link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/BrowseTheWeb.html#<init>(org.shakespeareframework.selenium.WebDriverSupplier,java.lang.String)[WebDriverManager].
The URL will be automatically called when you call link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/BrowseTheWeb.html#getWebDriver()[getWebDriver].

.Configure a base URL
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=open-base-url]
----

== Additional Capabilities

All link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/WebDriverSupplier.html[WebDriverSuppliers] provide a constructor, which allows configuring additional Capabilities.

.Additional Capabilities in a LocalWebDriverSupplier
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=additional-capabilities]
----

== Selenium Reporting

=== Screenshot Reporting

An actor can be instructed to inform link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/ScreenshotReporter.html[ScreenshotReporter] (see <<Reporting>>).
By default, this will create a screenshot of the current page whenever doing a Task or answering a Question needs to be retried or fails, but it can also be configured to report successes.

The screenshots can then be found at the configured reports path and are named `<counter>-<actor>-<retry|failure|success>-<task|question string>.png`, where the `<task|question string>` is a file system friendly version of the Task's or Question's `toString()`.
E.g. `001-imogen-success-latest_shakespeare_release_version.png`.

.Using a ScreenshotReporter
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=screenshot-reporter]
----

=== HTML Snapshot Reports

Similar to the <<Screenshot Reporting>> there's also a link:{javadoc-url}/selenium/org/shakespeareframework/selenium/HtmlSnapshotReporter.html[HtmlSnapshotReporter], which captures the current page's HTML snapshot.

.Using a HtmlSnapshotReporter
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::../../../test/java/SeleniumDocTest.java[tag=html-snapshot-reporter]
----
